---
layout: post
title: Using Koa2 with TypeScript
categories: FRONTEND
tags: typescript nodejs koa2
---

# Building Web Apps with Koa and TypeScript

Since the early days of NodeJS, Express has been the de-facto standard web framework for NodeJS developers. However, JavaScript has come a long way in the last few years, and features like **promises** and **async functions** have made it possible to build smaller and much more robust web frameworks.

Koa is such a framework. It has been built by the team behind Express to take advantage of the latest JavaScript and NodeJS features, specifically async functions.

Unlike Express and other node frameworks such as Hapi, **Koa does not require the use of callbacks**. This removes a huge potential souce of difficult to trace errors and makes the framework very easy to pick up for new developers.

Now I'll try to build a new web application project using Koa and TypeScript below.

## Getting Set up

Koa requires a version of Node with async function support, so before starting make sure of you have Node8.x(or above) installed.

Let's start out with a new directory.

```
proj/
   ├─ src/
   └─ dist/
```

Now we'll turn this folder into an npm package.

```shell
npm init
```

You’ll be given a series of prompts. Change your entry point, use **./dist/main.js**. You can always go back and change these in the `package.json` file that’s been generated for you.

## Install dependencies

```shell
npm install -g gulp-cli
npm install koa koa-router
npm install --save-dev gulp gulp-typescript @types/koa @types/koa-router
```

Now in the root of project, create a new `tsconfig.json` file and add the following content:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "module": "commonjs",
    "target": "es2017",
    "noImplicitAny": true,
    "types": [
      "koa"
    ]
  },
  "include": [
    "src/**/*"
  ],
  "exclude": [
    "node_modules"
  ]
}
```

Note above that we configure TypeScript to transpile to **ES2017** — this ensures that we take advantage of Node’s **native** async / await functionality.

Then create a new `gulpfile.js` file and add the following content:

```javascript
var gulp = require("gulp");
var ts =require("gulp-typescript");
var tsProject = ts.createProject("tsconfig.json");

gulp.task("default", function(){
  return tsProject.src().pipe(tsProject()).js.pipe(gulp.dest("dist"));
});
```

## Creating the server

As Koa is a microframework at its core, it is very straightforward to get it up and running.

In your project directory, create a **src** folder, and inside it create a new file **main.ts** with the following contents:

```typescript
import * as Koa from 'koa';
import * as Router from 'koa-router';

const app = new Koa();
const router = new Router();

router.get('/*', async (ctx) => {
    ctx.body = "Hello Vincen!";
});

app.use(router.routes());

app.listen(3000);

console.log("Server running on port 3000");
```

## Running the server

In root of project, running the following command:

```shell
gulp
node dist/main.js
```

Now you should be able to access http://localhost:3000/ in your browser.

# Building the Application — Adding Middleware

The main Koa library consists of just the basic HTTP functionality. To build a full web application we'll want to add appropriate middleware, such as for Logging, Error Handling, CSRF Protection, etc.

In Koa, middleware is essentially a stack of functions, create via `app.use()`. When a web request is received, it is passed to the first function in the stack. That function can process the request, then optionally pass it on to the next middleware function.

Let's extend example above to include a middleware function that logs the URL of each web request to  the console:

```typescript
import * as Koa from 'koa';
import * as Router from 'koa-router';

const app = new Koa();

app.use(async (ctx, next) => {
    // Log the request to the console
    console.log("URL: ", ctx.url);
    // Pass the request to the next middleware function
    await next();
});

const router = new Router();

router.get('/*', async (ctx) => {
    ctx.body = "Hello Vincen!";
});

app.use(router.routes());

app.listen(3000);

console.log("Server running on port 3000");
```

In the example above we now define two middleware functions:

* The **first** middleware function takes the Url from the request context (`ctx.url`) and outputs it to the console using `console.log()`.

* The function then does `await next()` which tells Koa to pass the request down to the next middleware function in the stack.

* The **second** middleware function comes from `koa-router` — it uses the url of the request to match the route we configured via `router.get()`.

Then access http://localhost:3000 again.

## Standard Middleware

Obviously, you don't really want to be reinventing the wheel for your web apps. Depending on the types of app you want to create, the following middleware could be useful:

- **Koa Router**
  <https://github.com/alexmingoia/koa-router>
- **Koa Body Parser** (for JSON and Form Data support)
  <https://github.com/dlau/koa-body>
- **Koa Cross-Site-Request-Forgery (CSRF) prevention**
  <https://github.com/koajs/csrf>
- **Koa Examples **(lots of useful stuff, including error handling)
  <https://github.com/koajs/examples>

